    Lesson 6 RGB LED Display Source
             Code Analysis
1．Program Description
In this section, we will learn how to use the PA5 and PA7 pins on the
STM32F407 as the master device of SPI protocol. By outputting data to the
input pin (SPI1_MOSI) and clock line (SPI1_SCK) of the two WS2812b series
RGB LEDs on the development board, the color of the RGB LEDs can be
controlled. The RGB LEDs will emit mixed light of red, green, and blue in
different ratios, based on the data they receive.




2．Hardware Connection
Connect the RRCLite controller to the PC via USB cable through serial port 1.
The hardware connection diagram is as follows:




3．Program Download
The example for this section is "RRCLite_RGB".

                                          1
4．Program Outcome
After downloading the program, press the RESET button to make two RGB
lights light up with different color ratios.
Specifically, after powering up, RGB light 1 displays blue, and RGB light 2
does not light up. After 5 seconds, RGB light 2 turns into green, and RGB light
1 does not light up. Then, after another 5 seconds, both RGB lights turn into
red.
After 5 seconds, RGB light 1 returns to its original state, displaying blue. RGB
light 2 does not light up. This cycle repeats continuously.

Note: The MCU can control multiple RGB lights connected in series through an SPI

interface. The program can also be modified to achieve separate control of one or more of

these RGB lights.




                                (During initialization)




                                               2
(RGB light 0 displays blue)




(RGB light 1 displays green)




               3
                          (RGB lights all display red)



5．Pin Configuration
Use STM32CubeMX software to view the pin information. The microcontroller
communicates with the IMU using SPI. According to the following figure, the
corresponding pins for MOSI and SCK functions in the SPI protocol are PA6
and PA7 respectively. Since the RGB light serves as a slave device and does
not need to report any information to the MCU, MISO and other functions are
simplified to save pin resources.




6．Source Code Analysis
The source code for this program is under the same directory as this lesson.
The main program framework is designed as follows:
 The main analysis of the RGB light working scheduling task is based on the
 Hiwonder/System/app.c file, and the underlying processing task is based on

                                         4
                   the Hiwonder/Peripherals/rgb_spi.c file.




It can be divided two three parts: RGB light working scheduling task, and
underlying processing task.

6.1 RGB Light Working Scheduling Task
The task is located in the app.c file under Hiwonder/System directory, inside
the app_task_entry(void *argument) function. This task function is dedicated to
user secondary development and implementation of DIY functions, as follows:




                                        5
At ①, the initialization of RGB light configuration information is implemented.
The function is responsible for clearing the part of the data array to be sent
from SPI to configure the RGB light, and simultaneously writing the fixed
content format at the end of the data array.
At ②, two arrays, rgb (used to control a single RGB light) and rgb_all (used to
control two RGB lights simultaneously), are created. They can be written in this
task function.




                                         6
In the loop section of the program, at ①, the array rgb first sets the part
controlling the green (0-7 bit) to 255 (or any value between 0-255; the larger
the value, the deeper the displayed green, and the same applies to other
colors). Then, the rgb is passed to RGB light 1, which has an ID of 0 because
the configuration array index starts from 0. The ID of RGB light 2 is 1.
After clearing the array rgb, it is passed to RGB light 2.
This can achieve the effect: RGB light 1 turns blue and RGB light 2 does not
light up after the program is enabled.
After a 5-seconds delay, the second segment of the program starts to be
executed, which is similar to the previous segment and does not require further
analysis.
In the third segment of the program, the rgb_all array is used to control two
RGB lights simultaneously. It is achieved by setting the configuration
information of each RGB light’s red component to 255 in rgb_all, and then
passing it to both RGB lights. This allows both RGB lights 1 and 2 to light up
red simultaneously.
When the set_id_rgb_color and set_rgb_color functions are executed, the
underlying processing task starts to work.

                                          7
Introduction to WS2812b: Each RGB LED has a chip inside, which controls its illumination

by receiving specific timed data. When sending data, 24 bytes of RGB data need to be

sent in a specific timed sequence, with the high bits first and the low bits last, and the

format is GRB. The color information in the configuration array is arranged in the order of

green-red-blue.


6.2 Underlying Processing Task




At the low level, a pixelBuffer array is created to receive the configuration
information sent by the RGB LED scheduling task. It should be noted that the
sent array data cannot be used directly.
The original array data, which allocates 3 unsigned char spaces for each RGB
LED to store the green-red-blue color configuration. Each color of the RGB
LED is represented by 8 bits. It needs to be converted into 0s and 1s that can
be recognized by the LED when transmitted at the low level.
The configuration array sent by the RGB LED scheduling task needs to be
broken down into each bit of each element and converted into the
corresponding 0s and 1s, which are then written into the pixelBuffer array in
order.
After sending the data, a reset signal is needed to indicate the end of
transmission, which is a low-level signal lasting 280us. In this program, the
method of sending a 0 element of the pixelBuffer array size is used to
implement the reset code.
Therefore, the size of the pixelBuffer array can be determined as long as the
total number of RGB LEDs is known.


                                                8
The above figure shows the initialization method of the pixelBuffer data array
at the low level. The data elements that control each RGB LED are initialized
separately from the last element that represents the reset code. Please note
the difference between 0s and 0 to avoid misuse.

    Note: this function must be called before the function call in the following text

(otherwise the space for storing the reset code is not properly defined), and it will not be

recognized correctly by the device during transmission.




The above figure shows the method of transmitting the low-level data stored in
the MCU to the RGB LED, which is transmitted to the MOSI1 interface of SPI1
through DMA hardware to reduce the transmission burden on the CPU.
It should be noted that this function has been integrated into the function in the
following text, so the RGB LED scheduling task does not need to call this
function separately.




The above figure shows the method of controlling a single RGB LED, which
involves obtaining the ID of the RGB LED and its configuration data. The
space called by the array parameter is “3*sizeof(uint8_t)”.
Then, the corresponding space allocated to the RGB LED with that ID is
                                                9
written into the low-level data array pixelBuffer, while the configuration
information of other RGB LEDs remains unchanged (keeping their previous
color state). Finally, the data is transmitted from the low-level data array to the
RGB LED.




The above figure shows the method of controlling both RGB LEDs
simultaneously. The space called by the array parameter is
“2*3*sizeof(uint8_t)”.




                                          10
