    Using a LED Blinking Program with
               FreeRTOS
1. Program Logic
This experiment utilizes the FreeRTOS operating system to create a user task.
Within this task, the PE10 pin's high and low levels are manipulated to control
the blinking of an LED.

2. Hardware Connection
The LED is connected to pin PE10, where it is off when the pin is at a high
level and on when it is at a low level.
Below is the circuit diagram:




The LED on the controller is as below:




3. Program Download
The example program for this section is named "Hiwonder_FreeRTOS_LED".
4. Project Creation and Program Writing

4.1 Project Creation
1. After double-clicking to open the STM32CubeMX software, the following
interface will appear:




2. Click on "File". If you already have a project created by STM32CubeMX,
you can click on the second option "Load Project..."; if you want to create a
new project, click on the first option "New Project".




Wait for the plugins to finish loading.
3. In the input box below, enter the selected chip model: STM32F407VET6




4. After selecting the chip, you can choose the necessary chip information in
this box.




5. Then click on "Start Project" to begin creating a new project.
4.2 Chip Configuration & Project Creating
4.2.1 Chip Configuration Interface
(1) Pinout & Configuration :
On the left are hardware configuration options, and on the right is the visual
interface for chip operation, where you can configure the IO ports.
(2) Clock Configuration:
This interface is for configuring the clock of various parts of the chip.




(3) Project Manager:
This interface is the project management interface, where various parameters
for generating project files are configured.
(4) Tools:
This interface is the tools interface, where these tools can be used during the
development process.




4.2.2 Pinout & Configuration Interface Configuration
1) Click on "Middle and Software Packs", choose "FreeRTOS", then select
the CMSIS_V2 version to use FreeRTOS in the project.
2) Configure the relevant parameters of the RTOS system in the
configuration.
In the Configuration box, there are many options for creating system
functionalities:
Timers and Semaphores: Create timers and semaphores.
Mutexes: Create mutexes.
Events: Create events.
FreeRTOS Heap Usage: Set up the heap for the system and tasks.
Advanced Settings: Advanced system settings.
User Constants: Create user constants.
Tasks and Queues: Create tasks and queues.
Config Parameters: Configure the system kernel.
Include Parameters: Configure the system include program.




3) Create Task
Select the "Tasks and Queues" option, then click "Add" in the Task section to
add a task.
The task creation interface is as below:




Task Name: The name of the task, where you can define your own task name.
Priority: The priority of the task, usually set to default.
Stack Size: The size of the task's stack, typically set to default.
Entry Function: The entry function of the task, where you write the task loop.
You can name it as you wish.
Code Generation Option: Generates virtual function code for the task's entry
function.
Parameter: Input parameters, usually set to NULL.
Allocation: The allocation method for the task, either dynamic or static. Here,
we choose to create a static task.
Buffer Name: The name of the task's buffer, usually set to default.
Control Block Name: The name of the task's control block, usually set to
default.
After configuring, click "OK" to create the task.
4) Configure IO Port
One end of the LED on the development board is connected to 3.3V, and the
other end is connected to the PE10 pin. Therefore, we need to configure the
PE10 pin. When the pin is high, the LED is off (not conducting); when the pin is
low, the LED is on (conducting).
Click on the PE10 pin in the visual interface and set it to GPIO_Output.




Select the "System Core" dropdown menu, click on the "GPIO" option, and
configure it as follows:
Default output: High
Output mode: Output Push Pull
Pull: Pull-up
Output speed: Low
User-defined label: LED1 (you can name this as you wish, and it will be
associated with the IO macro definition in the program).
5) Configure RCC
Click on the RCC option, select External High Speed Clock (HSE) as
Crystal/Ceramic Resonator (passive external oscillator).




6) Configure SYS
Select TIM14 (Timer 14) as the system clock.
4.2.3 Clock Configuration Interface Configuration
Click on "Clock Configuration". The external oscillator of the development
board is 8 MHz, so enter 8 in the "Input frequency" field, then configure
according to the diagram below.




You only need to focus on the parameters at the end that will be used in the
projects.
4.2.4 Project Manage Interface Configuration
Click on "Project Manager" to enter the project generation configuration,
focusing mainly on the "Project Settings" under the "Project" tab.
Project Name: Name of the project
Project Location: Local path for the project
Application Structure: Choose "Basic"
Toolchain Folder Location: Default location
Toolchain / IDE: Choose the programming and compiling tool. We are using
Keil5 for programming, so select "MDK-ARM"
Min Version: Select the minimum version as "V5"
Click-on ‘GENERATE CODE’ button at the upper right corner.




After generation, click "Open Project" to directly open the project with Keil5
software (Keil5 needs to be installed).
4.3 LED Program Editing
Open main.c file in Application / User.




For project files generated by STM32CubeMX, users' program code and
comments need to be added or modified within specific ranges, as shown
below:
/* USER CODE BEGIN xxx*/
//User comments and program code
/* USER CODE END xxx*/
If modifications are made outside of this range, they will be overwritten during
the next configuration modification and regeneration in STM32CubeMX. Only
the code and comments within this range will be preserved.
For files created and added manually, this restriction does not apply.
Note: If you manually add this tag, STM32CubeMX software will not recognize it and will

still overwrite the code outside of this range.




The while loop in the main() function will not be reached by the system, so LED
programs cannot be written here.




You need to find the LED_Task_entry() function that we defined as the task
entry function when configuring the FreeRTOS system (section 2.3). Write
your LED blinking logic inside this task function.
In the main.c file, you can find the declaration and virtual function definition of
the LED_Task_entry() function.
Our LED blinking program can be placed inside this function. Make sure to
write it within the range provided by the system for ease of reconfiguration
later.




Program logic:
for( ; ; ){

Set the LED pin to high level;

      Delay for 500ms;

      Set the LED pin to low level;
    Delay for 500ms;

}

After compilation, once there are no errors indicated below, you can proceed to
download and burn the program.
