 Lesson 7 RRCLite PWM Servo Control
  Principle and Source Code Analysis
1．PWM Servo Description
A servo is a common motor drive device used to control the position, speed,
and acceleration in a mechanical system. It typically consists of a motor, a
control circuit, and a feedback system.
In terms of type, servos can be categorized into analog servos, PWM (pulse
width modulation) servos, and bus servos. This section mainly focuses on
PWM servos.
PWM servos use pulse width modulation signals to control the angular position
of the servo.
In simple terms, a PWM servo controls the angular position by varying the
pulse width of the signal. The range of the pulse width determines the extreme
angular positions of the servo, while the period of the control signal determines
the refresh frequency of the signal. By adjusting the duration of the pulse width,
precise control of the servo position can be achieved.
PWM achieves a level state between 0 and 1, meaning that when PWM is
output, the voltage can be any value between 0 and 3.3V/5V.
When using PWM control, it is essential to know two parameters of the object
being controlled:
Its PWM frequency (corresponding to the timer cycle)
Its operating pulse width (corresponding to the PWM duty cycle)
The control signal enters the signal modulation chip from the receiver channel
to obtain a DC bias voltage. Inside, a reference circuit generates a reference
signal with a period of 20ms and a width of 1.5ms. The obtained DC bias
voltage is compared with the voltage of the potentiometer to produce a voltage
difference output. Finally, the positive and negative outputs of the voltage
difference are sent to the motor driver chip to determine the motor's forward
                                          1
and reverse rotation. When the motor speed is constant, the potentiometer is
driven to rotate through the cascade reduction gear, ensuring the voltage
difference becomes zero, and the motor stops rotating.



2．Wiring Method:

2.1 Required Stuffs:
1. stm32 controller
2. LD-1501MG digital servo

2.2 Connection Instructions
1. The diagram below shows the reserved interfaces J1 and J2 provided by the
STM32 main control board for the PWM servo. Use a jumper cap to connect
the top row of pins in the figure to different power sources, shorting them to the
5V end (inserting them into the left two pins). The two servo pins below are
powered by 5V voltage.




2. Connect the servo's 3-pin cable to the corresponding J2 or J1 interface, as
                                          2
shown below:
The connection method is as follows:
White -> Signal line (SUBS)
Red -> Power supply (+5V)
Black -> Ground (−)




                                 Connect to J1 and J2
The STM32 main control board can be powered by our 7.4V lithium battery
pack. For detailed connection instructions, please refer to "Lithium Battery
Usage and Precautions" in the current document path.
Attention: The servo motor must be connected according to the positions shown in the

document diagram. Avoid connecting it incorrectly or mistakenly to prevent burning out the

motor. Our company will not take any responsibility!!!




3．Program Download
The sample program can be found in “Lesson 7 RRCLite PWM Servo Control
Principle and Source Code Analysis/RosRobotControllerLite_ros”.
For the steps and precautions required for programming burning, please refer
to “2. STM32 Development Fundamentals/Lesson 3 Project Compilation and
Download” document. Simply compile the “RosRobotControllerLite_ros”

                                               3
program located in the current document path to generate the hex file and
proceed with the burning process.



4．Program Outcome
Based on the set PWM servo pulse width values, the servo rotates to the
corresponding angles, as shown in the following diagram:




                                Pulse width:
                             Servo J1(down): 0
                               ServoJ2 (up): 0




                                Pulse width:
                           Servo J1(down): 1500
                             ServoJ2 (up): 1500




                                       4
                                 Pulse width:
                            Servo J1(down): 2000
                             ServoJ2 (up): 2000




                                 Pulse width:
                            Servo J1(down): 2500
                             ServoJ2 (up): 2500



5．Code Analysis

5.1 Header File
File location: Hiwonder/Peripherals
Object PWMServoObjectTypeDef:




Call the PWM control object generated by the PWMServoObject structure.
PWMServoObject Structure:


                                        5
This structure is used to configure PWM control objects.
Parameters:
Id: Servo ID
offset: Servo offset
target_duty: Target pulse width
current_duty: Current pulse width
duty_raw: Raw pulse width, the width finally written into the timer
Duration: Time for the servo to move from the current angle to the specified
angle, controlling the speed
duty_inc: Pulse width increment for each position update
inc_times: Number of increments needed
is_running: Whether the servo is in the process of rotation
duty_changed: Whether the pulse width has been changed


Function write_pin:
This function is used for setting the IO port level. After initialization, this
function will be used to set the 0-3 PWM servos.
It has the parameter 'new_state' representing the current pin's high or low
level.


Declare function pwm_servo_object_init:




                                             6
This function initializes the PWM servo object. Instantiation requires initializing
the servo object pointer.


Declare function pwm_servo_duty_compare:




This function controls the PWM servo pulse width, calculates the pulse width
change and the pulse width required for the current speed, and implements
control. It needs to be called every 50ms and requires setting the servo object
pointer for control.


Declare function pwm_servo_set_position:




Set the angle of the PWM servo. Actually, it only sets several internal variables
of the servo object and does not immediately control the servo. The actual
servo control is calculated and controlled by pwm_servo_duty_compare.


Declare function pwm_servo_set_offset：




                                          7
Set the offset of the PWM servo, requiring the servo object pointer for control.

5.2 Source Code
File location: Hiwonder/Peripherals
Function pwm_servo_duty_compare:




This function is used for controlling pulse width change comparison and speed
control.
Parameters: PWMServoObjectTypeDef instantiated object that needs to be
controlled.
Firstly, it calculates the control parameters of the servo according to the newly
set target. Then, it controls the servo to gradually rotate to the corresponding
new position based on the newly set position. Finally, when the last increment
occurs, the new position will be assigned to the current position, ensuring the
final position is correct.
It is worth noting that when the target pulse width target_duty is greater
than self->current_duty, the calculated duty_inc = (-(self->target_duty -
self->current_duty)) is a negative value. Afterwards, it is self-divided
by self->inc_times.
When entering the if(self->is_running) code block for the first
time, self->current_duty is equal to self->target_duty + (int)(self->duty_inc *
self->inc_times) = self->current_duty. As the number of times entering the
code block increases and self->inc_times decreases, the value
                                          8
of self->current_duty increases, approaching target_duty, and there is no
logical error in the code.


Function: pwm_servo_set_position:




This function is used to set the rotation position of the servo.
Parameters: PWMServoObjectTypeDef instantiated object that needs to be
controlled, rotation position (pulse width), required time.
Firstly, it is necessary to limit the duration of the movement as well as the
maximum and minimum values of the pulse width. Then, assign the
corresponding rotation position and time, as well as the switch to control the
servo rotation, to the parameters corresponding to the instantiated
PWMServoObjectTypeDef object.


Function pwm_servo_set_offset:




This function is used to set the offset of the servo.
Parameters: PWMServoObjectTypeDef instantiated object that needs to be
controlled, PWM servo offset.
Here, the magnitude limit of the offset will be set. When the servo rotates, this
parameter will be used for adjustment.


Function pwm_servo_object_init:




                                           9
This function is the initialization function for the PWM servo
PWMServoObjectTypeDef instantiated object.
Parameters: PWMServoObjectTypeDef instantiated object that needs to be
controlled.
Firstly, new memory is allocated for initialization, and then the initial position of
the PWM servo is set.

5.3 Initialization
File location: Hiwonder/Porting
Instantiation of PWM servo objects:



Instantiate objects of the PWMServoObjectTypeDef structure for PWM servos
1-4.
Setting servo:




Here, four functions are used to configure the interfaces of four PWM servos.
They call HAL_GPIO_WritePin to set the port number, pin, and high or low
level for each PWM servo.
Parameter: 'new_state' represents the current pin's high or low level.
PWM servo initialization:

                                           10
This function is used for initializing PWM servos.
Firstly, it initializes the memory of existing PWM objects and resets them to
their initial positions.
Then, it assigns the function for setting servo levels to the write_pin function of
the PWM servo object.
Finally, it sets up the timer.




                                          11
