       Development Environment Setup
    After installing the Keil software, please activate it. Otherwise, compilation failures

may occur, affecting normal usage.


1. Keil Software Installation

Keil is specialized software designed for microcontrollers, with powerful
functionality. Regardless of the version, the installation process is the same.
This section uses V5.36 as an example:

1) Go to the folder 'Keil Installation Package and mcuisp Download Tool',
    double-click the 'mdk536.exe' file.




2) Check the options and agree to the installation agreement.
3) Choose the installation path.




4) User information needs to be filled in here, you can fill it in randomly.

                                          2
5) After filling in, click 'Next' to proceed with the installation.




6) Wait for a moment, a prompt to install the ULink driver will pop up, click
    'Install' at this time.

                                            3
7) After the installation is complete, click 'Finish' to exit.




2. Configuration

2.1 Add Chip Support Package

After installing the Keil 5 software as described earlier, we need to manually
install the required chip package, which can be found in this section's directory.

After opening it, click 'Next'.




                                           4
Wait for the installation to be completed, then click-on ‘Finish’ button.




                                           5
Reopen the Keil software, then click-on pack installer icon.




Click-on ‘Device’ button. Then choose the correct device as pictured.




                                        6
2.2 Install J-Link Driver

J-Link is a commonly used debugger/emulator, used for microcontroller
development and debugging in conjunction with Keil 5. Therefore, when using
J-Link for programming and debugging microcontrollers in Keil 5, it is
necessary to install the J-Link driver.

You can find the J-Link installation package in this section's directory, then
double-click to open it, and click 'Next'.




                                             7
Choose ‘I Agree’.




Select the installation path to be the same directory as Keil 5.




                                          8
Wait for the installation to be completed.




Installation completed. If a prompt for upgrade appears, as shown in the
following image, simply close it.




                                             9
3. Install STM32CubeMX

STM32CubeMX is a graphical tool for configuring STM32 microcontrollers. It
assists developers in quickly configuring peripherals such as clocks, GPIOs,
interrupts, DMA, etc., and generates initialization code. It supports various
development environments, including Keil, IAR, and GCC.

The installation package can be found in this section's directory. Double-click
to open it, and click 'Next'.




                                         10
Tick ‘I accept the terms of this license agreement’, and click-on ‘Next’
button.




                                       11
You must check the first option above, then click 'Next'.




                                         12
Select the installation path, ensuring that the path does not contain any
Chinese characters. Then continue by clicking 'Next' and wait for the
installation progress bar to complete.




After waiting for the installation to complete, continue by clicking 'Next', then
click 'Done' to finish.




                                          13
