Bus Servo ID Writing and Source Code
              Analysis
1. Servo Description

It is an automatic control system composed of a DC motor, reduction gears, a
sensor, and control circuitry, which specifies the rotation angle of the output
shaft by sending signals.

Differences between a servo and a motor:

A servo generally has a maximum rotation angle, while a DC motor rotates
continuously. Therefore, a servo can only rotate within a certain angle and
cannot rotate continuously like a DC motor. A regular DC motor cannot provide
feedback on its rotation angle, whereas a servo can. Digital servos can switch
between servo mode and motor mode.




2. Serial Bus Servo

A regular DC motor typically rotates continuously to provide power, while a
servo is used to control the rotation of an object to a specific angle.

A bus servo is a derivative of a digital servo that communicates via an
asynchronous serial bus, meaning it can be controlled by sending and
receiving command packets, forming a closed-loop control system. Due to this
feature, bus servos can be daisy-chained, making wiring simpler and reducing
the use of serial ports. Because of this, when connecting bus servos, each
servo's ID must be set in advance, or they cannot be individually controlled.

Bus servos use high-precision potentiometers internally, and unlike PWM
servos, they can provide feedback on position, temperature, voltage, and other

                                          1
information. Their accuracy and linearity are excellent, resulting in more stable
robot operation and significantly extending the servo's lifespan.

Additionally, before assembling the servo, it must be set to its midpoint position.
The servo midpoint refers to its initial position, considered the "zero point" from
which it rotates to positive and negative angles. Therefore, the servo must be
adjusted to the midpoint before being installed onto the servo horn.

This is because, during rotation, the moving parts drive the potentiometer. The
software assumes the midpoint as the "zero point"; otherwise, the
potentiometer might enter a "blind spot," causing the entire component to
malfunction. Consequently, when using the robot, the specified angles may not
be achieved, or the corresponding action sets may not match.




3. Procedure

1) We notice that the program defaults to setting the bus servo ID as 1, but
    this ID can be changed to other numbers.



2) We can change the ID number to 5.




3) After recompiling and burning the program, connect the servo debugging
    board to the computer's serial port. Open the Bus Servo Terminal software

         , select the communication port, for example, COM15, click on
    parameter settings, and upon reading, it will show the ID number as 5,
    indicating that the ID has been successfully set.




                                          2
           2.5ms ---------- 180 degrees




4. Code Analysis

File locations: Hiwonder/app.c    void app_task_entry(void *argument)
Function




At the beginning of the program, it initializes the hardware peripherals and
creates relevant variables.




                                          3
It reads the ID of the servo connected to the bus. Only one servo can be
connected to the bus to prevent conflicts. If the servo is successfully read, the
program returns 0 and controls the servo to move to angle 0 (0*0.24°=0°), and
then exits the loop. Otherwise, the program will be stuck in this loop and report
an error log.




Set new ID for the servo and print it to the serial port.




After setting, the program reads the servo's ID again to verify that the new ID
has been successfully written. If the read fails, the program will be stuck in this
loop. If the read is successful, the program compares the read new ID with the
preset new ID. If they are the same, the write is successful. Otherwise, the
write fails, and the program is stuck in the next loop.

If the write is successful, the program controls the servo to move to angle 750
(750*0.24°=180°) with its new ID.




After that, the program stops the servo's movement and completes its mission.
It releases system resources in the for loop.

The serial_servo_set_id() function in the Hiwonder/serial_servo.c file is used
to modify the ID of a specific servo from old_id to new_id. The servo ID is sent
                                           4
to the servo through a serial data frame defined by the buf[] array.




The serial_servo_set_position() function sets the position and duration of the
servo's movement. The specific position and duration information is sent to the
servo through a serial data frame defined by the buffer[] array.




The serial_servo_stop() function sends a control command to stop the servo
through the serial port.

The execution flow is as follows:
(1) Define a buffer to store the sent data frame.
(2) Fill in the content of the data frame: frame header, servo ID, data length,
stop servo, checksum, and finally send the data frame through the serial port.




                                          5
6
