      2.1 RRCLite Buzzer Source Code
                 Analysis
1. Program Logic
This section mainly focuses on controlling the sound of the buzzer on the
STM32 main control board.



2. Hardware Connection
The hardware connection diagram is as below:




3. Program Download
The example for this section is “RosRobotControllerLite_ros”.
For specific instructions on how to download the program, refer to the
document: “2.STM32 Development Fundamentals/3.Project Compilation and
Download”.



4. Program Outcome
After powered on, the buzzer will first sound for 1 second.

                                         1
Then, it will sound three beeps at a frequency of 1500 Hz. The duration of each
beep is 50 milliseconds, and the interval between two beeps is 100
milliseconds.
After that, it will sound three beeps at a frequency of 2000 Hz. The duration of
each beep is 50 milliseconds, and the interval between two beeps is 100
milliseconds.
Finally, the buzzer will be turned off.



5. State Machine Configuration
Use STM32CubeMX to check the information on software timers and state
machines. In the “Pinout & Configuration” section, go to “FREERTOS” and
open “Timers and Semaphores”. You will find the details of “buzzer_timer”
there.




The current application is in Hiwonder/Peripherals/led.c.




                                          2
6. Source Code Analysis
The source code for this course is located in the same folder as this tutorial
document, mainly analyzing the files Hiwonder/System/app.c and
Hiwonder/Peripherals/led.c.

6.1 Buzzer Functionality Implementation




Above is the App.c file. “app_task_entry()” serves as the user's entry function.
The main programming flow is as follows:
An externally defined variable buzzer_timerHandle is used as the timer handle.
The buzzers_init function is called to initialize the buzzer.
Then, the osTimerStart function is used to start the timer, passing
BUZZER_TASK_PERIOD as the timer's working interval. This enables the
buzzer control function to be called in the timer interrupt.
The program uses a timer callback function to control the sound of the buzzer.
Delay functions are used to control the duration and the number of times of the
buzzer sound.




                                           3
(In the freertos.c file, the timer handle is associated with the corresponding timer callback

                                         function)




(In the buzzer_porting.c file, the timer callback function for the buzzer executes the buzzer

                                      task by default)

6.2 Control Buzzer On, Off and Sound Times




                                                4
Above is the buzzer.c file. It constructs a buzzer object and provides three
methods for controlling the buzzer. These functions can be called to turn the
buzzer on/off and set its sound frequency.
In these functions, different members for controlling the buzzer structure
(working frequency, sound duration, mute time, repetition times) are assigned
different values, based on different functions. The defined structure is then
passed into the buzzer message queue. The data will be retrieved and
processed from other functions.
The buzzer_on_() function is a structure for turning the buzzer on.
The buzzer_off() function is a structure for turning the buzzer off.
The buzzer_didi function is a structure for controlling the buzzer to sound
multiple times.
The buzzer_object_init(LEDObjectTypeDef *self) function initializes the buzzer
object. In this function, the state of the state machine is set to
BUZZER_STAGE_IDLE.
When the buzzer state machine is in the idle mode, each time the buzzer task


                                           5
triggered by the buzzer timer will not perform any operation.

6.3 Physical Implementation of Buzzer Operating Parameter




Above is the buzzer.c file. It constructs a buzzer object and controls the buzzer
based on the different buzzer state machines. When new data is retrieved from
the buzzer message queue, the state machine is set to the beginning of a new
work cycle. The buzzer is controlled accordingly.
The new data obtained from the buzzer message queue are exactly the data
stored in functions such as buzzer_on and buzzer_didi.




                                         6
