2.2 RRCLite LED Source Code Analysis
1. Program Logic
This chapter mainly focuses on controlling the LEDs on the STM32 main
control board, including turning them on, off, and making them blink.



2. Hardware Connection
The hardware connection diagram is as below:




3. Program Download
The example for this section is “RosRobotControllerLite_ros”.
For specific instructions on how to download the program, refer to the
document: “2.STM32 Development Fundamentals/3.Project Compilation and
Download”.



4. Program Outcome
Wait for 3 seconds for the LED to turn on, then another 3 seconds for it to turn
off. Afterward, wait 3 seconds for the LED to start blinking (off for 200ms, on for

                                          1
200ms). After blinking for 3 seconds, the LED will turn off.




                         （when power-up - LED light off）




                                 （LED light on）




                                          2
5. State Machine Configuration
Use STM32CubeMX to check the information on software timers and state
machines. In the “Pinout & Configuration” section, go to “FREERTOS” and
open “Timers and Semaphores”. You will find the details of “led_timer” there.




The current application is in Hiwonder/Peripherals/led.c.



6. Source Code Analysis
The source code for this course is located in the same folder as this tutorial
document, mainly analyzing the files Hiwonder/System/app.c and
Hiwonder/Peripherals/led.c.
For more details, please refer to the introduction to the buzzer in the previous
section. The operation method of LED is similar to it.




                                          3
6.1 LED Functionality Implementation




Above is the App.c file. “app_task_entry()” serves as the user's entry function.
The main programming flow is as follows:
An externally defined variable led_timerHandle is used as the timer handle.
The leds_init function is called to initialize the LEDs.
Then, the osTimerStart function is used to start the timer, passing
LED_TASK_PERIOD as the timer's working interval. This enables the LED
control function to be called in the timer interrupt.
First, the LED timer is started, waiting for 3 seconds for the LED to turn on.
Then, waiting for another 3 seconds for the LED to turn off. Subsequently,
waiting for 3 seconds to begin LED blinking (off for 200ms, on for 200ms).
After 3 seconds of LED blinking, the light goes off.
The program uses a timer to control the blinking of the LED, and delay
functions are used to control the on/off time of the LED and the number of
blinks.




                                           4
6.2 Control LED On, Off and Blinking




Above is the LED.c file, which constructs an LED object and provides three
methods to control the LED:
The led_on() function is a structure for turning the LED on.
The led_off() function is a structure for turning the LED off.
The led_flash() function is a structure for making the LED blink.
The led_object_init(LEDObjectTypeDef *self) function initializes the LED object.
In this function, the state of the state machine is set to LED_STAGE_IDLE.




                                          5
