                             Light up LED
1．Preface
This lesson will use software to write a program for the LED on the STM32
main control board, controlling the onboard LED to blink.



2．Getting Ready

2.1 Software Preparation
1. Install and configure Keil5.
If it is not installed or configured, please refer to “2.STM32 Development
Fundamentals/1.Set Development Environment”.
2. Install Jlink firmware.
If it is not installed or configured, please access “2.STM32 Development
Fundamentals/1.Set Development Environment” for flashing.

2.2 Hardware Preparation
1. STM32 Main Controller




2. The Jlink debugger and a Micro-USB data cable (self-provided) are used for
code flashing.
3．Operation Steps
1) Connect the RRCLite controller to the PC with the USB cable.




2) Download the program. For specific download method (Type-C serial port
download), please refer to “2.STM32 Development Fundamentals/3.Project
Compilation and Download”.
4．Core Program Analysis
This code is an embedded program based on the STM32 microcontroller. It
controls the switching state of the LED light. The program mainly includes
some header files, such as main.h, and some library files, such as GPIO library
and RCC library.
In the main function, a series of functions are called to initialize the various
modules of the STM32 microcontroller, including the system clock, GPIO pins,
and LED lights.




In the while loop, the “HAL_GPIO_WritePin” and “HAL_Delay” functions are
called to control the LED light to blink every 2 seconds.
In the main function, the program calls the “HAL_Init” function to initialize the
MCU. Then, it calls the “SystemClock_Config” and “MX_GPIO_Init” functions
to configure the system clock and GPIO pins, respectively. These functions are
codes generated by STM32 CubeMX. They are used to initialize the various
functional modules of the STM32 microcontroller.

In the while loop, the “HAL_GPIO_WritePin” and “HAL_Delay” functions are
called to make the LED light blink every 2 seconds. The “HAL_GPIO_WritePin”
function controls the voltage level state of the GPIO pin, and the
“GPIO_PIN_RESET” and “GPIO_PIN_SET” parameters are passed in to turn
off and turn on the LED light, respectively. The “HAL_Delay” function is used to
implement delay, allowing the program to pause for a period of time before
executing the next statement. This controls the time interval of LED light
blinking.



5．Program Outcome
After the program is flashed, remove the USB cable. Then, you can connect a
7.4V or 11.4V battery to the STM32.

Please ensure to connect the battery correctly, with the black wire to the
negative terminal “-” and the red wire to the positive terminal “+”, as shown in
the two diagrams below:




                       Effect Diagram 1 (LED Light Off)
Effect Diagram 2 (LED Light On)
