  Lesson 8 RRCLite PWM Servo Motion
   Speed Control Principle and Source
            Code Analysis
1．PWM Servo Description
A servo is a common motor drive device used to control the position, speed,
and acceleration in a mechanical system. It typically consists of a motor, a
control circuit, and a feedback system.
In terms of type, servos can be categorized into analog servos, PWM (pulse
width modulation) servos, and bus servos. This section mainly focuses on
PWM servos.
PWM servos use pulse width modulation signals to control the angular position
of the servo.
In simple terms, a PWM servo controls the angular position by varying the
pulse width of the signal. The range of the pulse width determines the extreme
angular positions of the servo, while the period of the control signal determines
the refresh frequency of the signal. By adjusting the duration of the pulse width,
precise control of the servo position can be achieved.
PWM achieves a level state between 0 and 1, meaning that when PWM is
output, the voltage can be any value between 0 and 3.3V/5V.
When using PWM control, it is essential to know two parameters of the object
being controlled:
Its PWM frequency (corresponding to the timer cycle)
Its operating pulse width (corresponding to the PWM duty cycle)
The control signal enters the signal modulation chip from the receiver channel
to obtain a DC bias voltage. Inside, a reference circuit generates a reference
signal with a period of 20ms and a width of 1.5ms. The obtained DC bias
voltage is compared with the voltage of the potentiometer to produce a voltage

                                          1
difference output. Finally, the positive and negative outputs of the voltage
difference are sent to the motor driver chip to determine the motor's forward
and reverse rotation. When the motor speed is constant, the potentiometer is
driven to rotate through the cascade reduction gear, ensuring the voltage
difference becomes zero, and the motor stops rotating.



2．Wiring Method:

2.1 Required Stuffs:
1. stm32 controller
2. LD-1501MG digital servo

2.2 Connection Instructions
1. The diagram below shows the reserved interface J3 provided by the STM32
main control board for the PWM servo.




The reserved interface for PWM servos is J3, as shown below. There are two
power supply options for the servo: VBAT (battery voltage) and 5V (+), as
indicated by the green box in the diagram.
                                        2
2. Connect the servo's 3-pin cable to the corresponding J2 interface, as
shown below:
The connection method is as follows:
White -> Signal line (SUBS)
Red -> Power supply (+5V)
Black -> Ground (−)




3. Select the 5V power supply for J2 and connect the 5V pin with the middle
pin on J2 using a jumper cap, as shown in the diagram below.




                                        3
Attention: The servo motor must be connected according to the positions shown in the

document diagram. Avoid connecting it incorrectly or mistakenly to prevent burning out the

motor. Our company will not take any responsibility!!!




3．Program Download
The sample program is 'RosRobotControllerLite_ros'.
After downloading the program (refer to '2. STM32 Development
Fundamentals/Lesson 3 Project Compilation and Download' for details on how
to download the program), you need to press the RESET button to reset the
microcontroller, which will then start executing the new program.



4．Program Outcome
After pressing reset, the servo will first initialize to 90°, then move to 0°, and
finally rotate to 180° at a speed of 60 degrees per second.



5．Code Analysis
This program is only for speed control. For detailed PWM servo control
                                               4
routines, please refer to “Lesson 7 RRCLite PWM Servo Control Principle and
Source Code Analysis”.




The program is located in the app.c file under /Hiwonder/System.
The pwm_servo_set_position() function controls the rotation of the servo. The
required parameters are defined as follows:
Parameter 1: Servo object
Parameter 2: Target angle of the servo
Parameter 3: Movement time
The rotation speed can be obtained by dividing the rotation angle by the
movement time. The program logic is as follows:
①Initialize the servo;
②Set the servo to a known initial angle;
③Delay to allow the servo to complete the movement. The delay time must be
greater than or equal to the movement time of the servo, otherwise, the servo
cannot reach the target position.
④Move the servo to the target angle and specify the movement time.
⑤Delay to allow the servo to complete the movement.
The servo movement speed can be calculated by dividing the known angle
difference by the movement time.




                                           5
