      Lesson 5 RRCLite QMI8658
 Accelerometer and Gyroscope Source
           Code Analysis
1．Program Description
This chapter focuses on reading data from the built-in MPU6050 on the STM32
development board, calculating the current attitude of the board, and
outputting the data via the serial port 1 to the PC.



2．Hardware Connection
Connect the RRCLite controller to the PC via USB cable through UART 1. The
hardware connection diagram is as follows:




3．Program Download
The example for this section is "RRCLite_IMU".




                                          1
4．Program Outcome
After downloading the program, press the RESET button to see the real-time
attitude data of the development board displayed on the OLED screen.
After reset, the data displayed for the three axes is basically zero (with some
minor errors), as shown below:




For forward and backward tilting, mainly the Roll data changes.




                                        2
For left and right tilting, mainly the Pitch data changes.
Note: the effect shown below can also be achieved with a 7.4V battery:



                                             3
4
For plane rotation, mainly the Yaw data changes.




                                       5
5. Pin Configuration
Use STM32CubeMX software to view the pin information. The microcontroller
communicates with the IMU using I2C, and the IMU sends interrupt signals for
the microcontroller to collect IMU data.
The corresponding I2C chip pins are PB10 and PB11; the interrupt pin is PB12.




6. Source Code Analysis
The source code for this program is under the same directory as this lesson.
                                           6
The main program framework is designed as follows:
The interrupt analysis is mainly based on the Core/Src/stm32f4xx_it.c file, and
the display task is analyzed based on the Hiwonder/System/app.c file.




The analysis is divided into two parts:
1.External interrupt
2.The task of reading and forwarding IMU data

6.1 External Interrupt
In the Core/Src/stm32f4xx_it.c file, the EXTI15_10_IRQHandler()
function handles the external interrupt. It sends a semaphore signal to unlock
the IMU reading block state, as shown below:




6.2 The task of reading and forwarding IMU data
The reading task initializes the IMU and its parameters, then loops to wait for
reading IMU data.




                                          7
The osSemaphoreAcquire() function in the RTOS system acquires the
semaphore:
Parameter 1: Semaphore handle (here, the IMU semaphore handle)
Parameter 2: Timeout duration (ms), with osWaitForever meaning to wait
indefinitely.
If there is no semaphore in the queue, the function waits and executes other
tasks. When a semaphore is available, it retrieves it and continues running the
subsequent program.
The function “read_xyz()” is used to read and update data from the IMU.
Parameter 1 is the member variable of the IMU accelerometer to be written for
synchronization. Parameter 2 is the member variable of the IMU gyroscope to
be written for synchronization. After execution, the new IMU posture
parameters can be obtained.




                                        8
