                        Encoder Principle
1. Introduction to Encoder

An encoder is a sensing device that provides feedback. Encoders convert
motion to an electrical signal for measuring speed or motion information.
Based on the output data type, encoders can be divided into incremental
encoders and absolute encoders. Based on the detection principles, there are
optical, magnetic, inductive, and capacitive types.




2. Encoder Classification

2.1 Incremental encoder

     Basic principle

The incremental encoder is a device that converts the displacement into a
periodic electrical signal and then converts this electrical signal into counting
pulses, which are then transformed into counting pulses to represent the
magnitude of the displacement.

     Basic concept

There are five wires in total, including A, B and C three data wires, as well as
VCC and GND. Both cable A and B are data output cables, outputting pulse
signals for data processing. The pulses output by A and B have a phase
difference of 90 degrees. The Z wire is used for the zero point signal, e.i, when
encoder is rotating to the zero position, it will emit a pulse for indicating this
position predetermined by manufacturer, and this position is also known as the
mechanical zero position.




                                            1
2.2 Absolute encoder

     Basic principle

Different from incremental encoder that rely on counting pulses and
determining the direction of pulses, absolute encoder is a sensing device that
directly output digits. More precisely, they provide a complete numerical output
corresponding to each angular position. Each position is unique, and during
the rotation of the encoder, the position can be directly read.

     Single-turn Absolute Encoder

Single-turn encoders measure displacement across 360° from a defined
starting position with the output repeated for every revolution of the encoder’s
shaft.

     Multiple-turn Absolute Encoder

Multi-turn encoders measure the degree of rotation within 360 and track the
number of total revolutions of the encoder’s shaft using a unique word for
each position and number of revolutions.




                                          2
2.3 Hall Encoder




Hall encoder consists of a Hall effect disk and Hall effect sensors. The Hall disk
a circular plate with magnetic poles arranged evenly along a certain diameter.
The Hall effect disk is mounted coaxially with an electric motor. When the
motor rotates, the Hall effect sensors detect and output a series of pulse
signals. To determine the direction of rotation, the encoder typically outputs
two sets of square wave signals with a certain phase difference between them.




3. Encoder Speed Measurement

3.1 Basic Principle

When a DC motor with Hall sensor completes one revolution, a certain number
of pulses are generated through the A and B phase outputs of the Hall effect
sensors. By counting the number of pulses within a certain time period, we can
calculate the instantaneous speed of the motor.

There are three types of pulse counting modes:

1) The counter counts on the rising or falling edge of the pulses outputted by
    T1.

2) The counter counts on the rising or falling edge of the pulses outputted by
    T2.


                                          3
3) The counter counts on both the rising and falling edges of the pulses
    outputted by both T1 and T2.

The third mode is commonly used, it enhances the accuracy of measurement.
By determining whether the counter is incrementing or decrementing, we can
determine the direction of rotation of the motor.


3.2 Coefficient

       ARR


when a pulse is encountered, the counter increments by one. When the count
reaches the reload value, an overflow interrupt is generated. The counter is
then cleared and starts counting again from zero. Therefore, the reload value
represents the maximum value for pulse counting by the counter.

       PSC

Originally, the timer was used for timing or PWM output, and the prescaler
factor was based on the 32-bit chip's internal clock. The formula used was
CK_CNT=TIMxCLK/(PSC+1), where PSC represents the prescaler factor.
However, when the timer is used for encoder speed measurement, the clock
source is external.


3.3 Convert Pulse into Speed

When the motor completes a revolution, the encoder will receive 360*4 / PSC
pulses. Then use timer set m seconds and record the

When the motor completes one revolution, the encoder captures a total of
360*4/PSC pulses, where PSC represents the prescaler factor. Then, using a
timer, we measure the duration of m milliseconds and record the number of
timer overflows as n. The speed can be calculated using the formula v = (n *
ARR + current count value) / (360 * 4 / PSC) / m, where ARR represents the
auto-reload value of the timer.

                                          4
