       Project Compilation & Download
1. Project Compilation
Once the program is written, we need to compile it into machine language for
execution on the embedded system. Keil5 comes with a built-in compiler that
can translate program source code into executable files. The compiler can
generate different target files based on different processor architectures and
instruction sets. Additionally, the compiler can optimize the code to produce
more efficient and stable executable files. The process of project compilation
involves the following steps:
1) Open the option to generate the hex file in settings:
In the Keil5 software interface menu bar, click on the 'Project' option, then click
on the 'Options for File 'app.c'' button.




                                            1
Click on the "OutPut" option, tick the three red options below, and then click
"OK".




2) In the Keil5 software interface menu bar, click on the "Project" option, then
select "Build Target" from the drop-down menu that appears to compile the
project, as shown in the figure below:




You can also compile by clicking on the corresponding icon on the toolbar, as
shown in the figure below:
                                         2
The following message appeared in the "Build Output" window at the bottom
of the software, indicating a successful compilation.




Note: If the "Build Output" window displays error message(s) after compiling the project, it

is necessary to double-click on the corresponding line to navigate to the relevant position

and make corrections. Afterward, compile again. If there are warning message(s), these

can be ignored.




2. USB Download
After compiling the project, you can download the generated hex file to the
STM32 main control board. The following software and hardware materials are
required.

2.1 Software & Hardware Preparation
Software: mcuisp (included in the attachments). For specific installation
instructions, please refer to "Appendix/Software Installation".




Hardware: Type-C cable and STM32 controller

2.2 Download Steps
1. Type-C to USB cable is used to connect the computer and the STM32
main control board (hereinafter referred to as Type-C cable).

                                               3
2. STM32 Controller
The specific operation steps are as follows, with the programmed named
"Blinking LED":
（1）Hardware Connection:
Insert the Type-C cable into the Type-C port (UART1) of the STM32 main
control board and connect it to the USB port of the computer.




                                  [UART1]




                                        4
                                [power supply]


（2）Basic Configuration:
Open the mcuisp software, click on "Search Serial Port" in the menu bar at
the top of the software, then set the baud rate (bps) to 115200.




Click on the "STMISP" option in the software interface.




Select "DTR low level reset, RTS high level to enter BootLoader" at the
bottom.

                                         5
（3）Software Burning:
Click on the button inside the red box in the mcuisp software interface, and
select the hex file that needs to be burned.




Return to the previous interface and click on the "Start ISP" button to burn the
generated hex file onto the STM32 main control board.




Burning in progress




                                         6
If the sidebar displays the following image, it indicates that the burning process
is complete.
Note: The STM32 main control board comes with pre-loaded software (resulting in LED1

blinking blue every 1 second). If you need to burn the PS2 joystick control program, you

can find the RosRobotControllerM4.hex file in the 'Chapter 1: Introduction to the Car

Hardware and Usage / Section 2: PS2 Joystick Remote Control / Program /

rosrobotcontrollerm4_motor_ps2 / MDK-ARM / RosRobotControllerM4' folder for burning.




If burning fails, refer to the 'Troubleshooting Guide' document in the 'Appendix'
folder for assistance.
Note: To avoid any abnormal occurrences during the burning process, users should follow

the steps in sequence carefully!!!




                                              7
