RRCLite Communication with the Host
Computer - Sending Processing Source
            Code Analysis
1. Program Logic
This section mainly analyzes the source code for sending communication
between the RRCLite development board and the host computer.



2. Hardware Connection
The hardware connection diagram is shown below:




3. Program Download
The example for this section is “RosRobotControllerLite_ros”.



4. Program Outcome
After porting the ROS package, you can call the host computer interface to

                                        1
receive messages from the car chassis bus servo, button messages, IMU
messages, gamepad messages, and SBUS model remote control messages.
After porting the ROS package, you can use a serial assistant to receive
messages from the bus servo, button, and IMU on the car chassis. Please set
the receiving code to HEX and turn on auto linefeed.




As shown in the figure above, when button K1 or K2 on the development board
is pressed, the current event will be reported via the serial port, as shown in ①.
The RRCLite development board will obtain and report IMU data in real-time,
as shown in ②. The RRCLite tick timer will simultaneously report messages at
fixed intervals, as shown in ③.
For a detailed analysis of the specific data frames, please refer to the previous
lesson.



5. Pin Configuration
The development board's microcontroller uses UART3 serial port, converted to
USB signal to communicate with the host computer through a conversion
circuit. Pin information can be viewed in the stm32cubemx software. The
corresponding chip pins are: PA9 and PA10.




                                          2
6. Source Code Analysis
The program source code for this course is "RosRobotControllerLite_ros" .
The program framework is designed as shown below.




The messages sent by the development board to the host computer are
divided into three categories: bus servo messages, button messages, and IMU
messages.

6.1 Button Message Upload
Each button action corresponds to a button event. When a button event is
triggered, the corresponding button event message is uploaded to the host
computer.
In Hiwonder/System/app.c, the button_event_callback() function handles the
event callback for buttons 1 and 2.
When a button action changes, it enters this callback function, stores the
button ID and its triggered event in the report structure, and uploads the button
message to the host computer via the packet_transmit() function.

                                         3
By flashing the program, you can see the button ID and event type values sent
to the host computer in the serial port 1 (displayed in hexadecimal (HEX)
encoding format).

6.2 IMU Message Upload
After the IMU issues an interrupt, the microcontroller reads its current value
and uploads it to the host computer.
In the Hiwonder/Porting/imu_porting.c file, the imu_task_entry() function is
responsible for reading IMU data.
When this task reaches the osSemaphoreAcquire() function, it waits for a
semaphore signal from the interrupt. Once the IMU issues an interrupt, the
microcontroller interrupt sends a semaphore signal. When
osSemaphoreAcquire() receives the signal, it continues executing the program,
reads the IMU data, and uploads the message to the host computer via the
packet_transmit() function.
In the Application/User/Core/stm32f4xx_it.c file, the IMU interrupt triggers the
following microcontroller interrupt to send a semaphore signal.




                                          4
The reading task is as below:




By flashing the program, you can see the IMU attitude values sent to the host
computer in the serial port 1 (displayed in hexadecimal (HEX) encoding
format).
Note: The IMU sends data at a high frequency. It is best to turn off IMU printing when

testing other messages to avoid interference.

6.3 Upload packet_transmit() Function Source Code Analysis
In the Hiwonder/Misc/packet.c file, the packet_transmit() function is defined as
                                                5
follows:




   Parameter 1: Protocol controller object
   Parameter 2: Function code
   Parameter 3: Data to be sent
   Parameter 4: Length of the data
When sending data, you only need to pass in the default protocol controller
object, defined in the Hiwonder/Porting/packet_porting.c file.



The function codes are defined in the packet.h file, with nine available function
codes.




Different messages have different input data. For detailed information, please
refer to "Lesson 13 RRCLite Communication Protocol with the Host Computer
Analysis".
1) The packet_serialize() function combines the function code, data, and data
length into a protocol structure and returns it. The packet_serialize() function
process is as follows:
                                          6
   Create a structure variable and assign it to pointer p.

   Sequentially assign the protocol header, data length, function code, data, and CRC

checksum to p.

   Return the structure pointed to by p.




2) The send_packet() structure member function uploads the assembled
protocol data. The send_packet() function sends the data to the packet_tx
queue.




The packet_tx_task_entry() protocol packet sending task function, defined in
packet_porting.c, completes the data transmission to the host computer.




The protocol data is sent via the UART serial port to the conversion circuit,
which converts the data to USB format and sends it to the host computer.
This completes the entire protocol sending process.




                                               7
