    Lesson 3 RRCLite Button Detection
        Source Code Explanation
1. Program Logic
This chapter mainly focuses on controlling the buzzer sound through the
built-in buttons on the STM32 main control board, accompanied by different
LED status blinking.



2. Hardware Connection
The hardware connection diagram is as below:




3. Program Download
The example for this section is “rosrobotcontrollerm4_key_buzzer”.
For specific instructions on how to download the program, refer to the

                                        1
document: “2.STM32 Development Fundamentals/3.Project
Compilation and Download”.



4. Program Outcome
1. Press the K2 button twice at startup, and the buzzer will emit three
consecutive beeps.
2. Press the K1 button; upon a single press, the buzzer emits 3 beeps. After
the first press, the LED turns off; after the second press, the LED turns on;
after the third press, the LED starts blinking.




         (The effect for the first time the K1 is clicked when power on)




                                           2
       (The effect for the second time the K1 is clicked when power on)




5. PIN Configuration
Using the STM32CubeMX software to check the pin information, according to
the diagram below, it can be seen that the chip pin corresponding to the buzzer
is PA8. The pin configuration corresponding to the buttons is PE1 and PE0.




6. Source Code Analysis
The source code for this lesson is located in the same folder as this tutorial

                                          3
document, primarily analyzing the files Hiwonder/System/app.c and
Hiwonder/Peripherals/buzzer.c.

6.1 LED State and Buzzer State Change




Above is the App.c file, where button_event_callback() serves as the button
callback function. The main programming flow is as follows:
Button event detection;
Different buzzer sounds for pressing button 1 and button 2;
Different LED state changes based on the number of times button 1 is
pressed.




                                        4
6.2 Buzzer Activation, Deactivation, and Setting of Beep

Duration




Above is the buzzer.c file, where the buzzer_on() function is to turn on the
buzzer. It initializes the buzzer control structure, sets the buzzer frequency,
and sets other properties to make the buzzer continuously beep.
.ticks_off = 0, // Silence time is 0, indicating continuous buzzing
The buzzer_off() function is to turn off the buzzer.
.ticks_on = 0, // Beeping time is 0, indicating silence
The buzzer_didi() function is to set the buzzer's frequency and beep mode. It
sets the buzzer's frequency, beeping time, silence time, and repeat count:
4freq, ticks_on, ticks_off, and repeat.

6.3 A Callback Function and Button Status Task are Registered




Above is the app.c file, where the button_register_callback function is used to
register a callback function, button_event_callback, for specific buttons (here
buttons[0] and buttons[1]). The callback function is invoked when specific
events occur, such as pressing or releasing a button. When a button is pressed
                                          5
or released, the callback function button_event_callback is executed,
triggering the corresponding code to run.




Above are the functions in the button.c file, including the callback function for
registering button events and the default button event callback function.




Above are the functions in the button.c file (partial screenshot omitted). The
button_task_handler function handles different button states and events,
including detecting button presses, releases, and long presses, and performs
                                          6
corresponding actions as needed.




The button_porting function periodically scans and updates the real-time
status of the buttons.




                                        7
